# syntax
SDET Training to become Test Engineer
SDET stands for Software Development/Design Engineer in Test. The position refers to an IT professional who happens to remain engaged, both in the development as well as testing of the software. As an Automation Tester, a SDET Roles and Responsibilities include duties of a tester as well as a developer. Thus, the prerequisites to become a SDET include cultivation of skills which enable one to adopt both roles. These individuals are professionals who are skilled in Software Development as well as Quality Engineering. They not only participate in developing and writing test scripts, but SDET testing also helps in fixing bugs as part of the process. Thus, they help in replacing repetitive manual testing with automation.

The question of how to become a SDET is closely tied to why should you consider being an Automation Tester. The traditional division between writing codes and testing has become unnecessary. This resulted in testers participating in the process of code development right from the initial stage. These experts are assets for the organizations as they can write as well as test codes. Thus, the future of SDET is one of immense opportunities and fruitful gains. One can become SDET with [SDET Training online](https://www.syntaxtechs.com/courses/sdet-training-course-online).

SDET Roles and Responsibilities
The prerequisites to become a SDET include the nurturance of skills which would be suitable for the performance of definite responsibilities which correspond to the position of an Automation Tester.

1. In the capacity of a SDET Engineer: SDETs possess engineering skills along with testing ones. Consequently, they happen to be involved in data design, product design as well as user interfaces.
2. In the capacity of an Automation Tester: A SDET’s Roles and Responsibilities include the automation of as many scenarios as possible. This implies that they are required to build robust and high quality test automation solutions for conducting different types of tests.
3. They act as customer spokesperson: SDETs try to understand the requirement for a product from the perspective of the customer and since they are involved at every stage of its development, till its final release; they are the best advocate who can justify the need of the software.
4. In the capacity of a designer: The road map of SDET career includes participation in architectural design discussions and help in providing effective feedback.
5. Linkage: A SDET Roles and Responsibilities include maintaining technical communication with the partners so that the organization is better able to understand the needs of the customers. On the same note, they are also responsible for investigating customer problems.
6. Functional and Non-Functional testing: Automation Testers are responsible for testing the functional as well as the non-functional aspect of a product. While testers are generally responsible for testing the functionality of a product; SDETs are responsible for paying attention to such issues as well as the security of the application, the absence of any hacks which could be misused and so on.
